it's may the cold dry season in Namibia
in the Haru Saval a several families
gather to feed one mother is
particularly hungry four months ago
broken tusk had a new calf dusty he's
always after milk dusty is broken tusks
first calf for eight years desert
elephants have only half as many calves
as their savanna cousins and they may
suckle for twice as long the family
appear to enjoy their new member
Dusty's relatives will do all they can
to prevent him getting into any trouble
youngsters are even more welcome than
usual because of a recent death in the
group this is Rosa the oldest member
she's just lost her elder daughter who
died within days of giving birth in her
late 50s she's unlikely to have any more
calves Rosa is attempting something
elephants don't normally do she's trying
to raise her dead daughter's son Himba
she's adopted the orphan
luckily she can give him milk because
she's still feeding a seven-year-old
daughter Rosa's milk is vital because of
two weeks himber can't cope with solids
he can't eat grass
so Himba is totally dependent on his
grandmother
the challenge is to guide the new
youngsters safely through the next six
months by then the two curves will have
to be strong enough to endure the long
treks to take desert elephants to their
next source of food for now the leaders
can let the cards play but in a short
time they will guide the youngsters on
journeys that will test them to the
limit